right hi hello everyone welcome to
October seconds dynamic data and
capabilities working group bi-weekly
sync meeting smart started recording if
everyone could please add their names
that they name to the list of attendees
at the top of the notes appreciate that
I'm going to share the screen while
we're at it okay but this one the other
one okay all right if is there a
volunteer to take notes this week I can
take it nobody nobody once if I can take
it
okay thank you all right so let's do a
round of intros and updates arkady since
you're your did you I think you're new
to the meeting if you want to know more
about someone someone's work we all have
questions at the end of each round but
if you want to know more about the role
of someone just just please ask
otherwise we'll just stick to the
updates so in order of attendees here on
top going to start so this last two
weeks I've been focused on working group
ok ours for the quarter fourth fourth
quarter of this year you can follow the
link here it's a public document also
I've been working on your past version
one architecture RC which addresses some
some
concerns that we've been well some not
concerns but some things that are were
temporary in the pierced our app
framework mainly discovery collaboration
membership and connectivity and so if
you will read the RFC
and chime in ask ask things or propose a
different path is a very simple document
very high level and it talks about
things like well how to the discovery
and how to do the connectivity for as a
replacement for some things we we have
now for instance what focused our how do
we scale that is some some things are
hard to be experimental but I think this
is a good place to start
also I've been working on something that
is necessary for fix on pierced our app
which is about membership in networking
dressing in members sometimes we have
difficulty finding peer addresses if the
pure book is not doesn't have yet us for
appear we're not able to connect to it
and thank you Jim for finding that out
so the fix for that is again a temporary
fix is to embed the network address of
the peer and membership gossip itself
and for that we needs going down further
down the rabbit hole is to create that
or map which is an embeddable gal
facility or a map allows you to have
like a map construct like a JavaScript
map but it allows you to embed
strategies inside that map so we can
have a map where each values it's
assigned to yourself and then you can go
and do that recursively
while keeping the causality keeping the
the versality in a causal consistent
causally consistent safe state and so
this this also addresses our there is an
issue on on peers our app I think and
also GS delta strategies for how to
achieve an embeddable sanity's and I
think SATA sorry men refer to specify
yes we have we've addressed this issue
there are other solutions for this but
this one is like a solution that comes
directly out of the Delta severity paper
and big shout out to the third image
which is a PhD student for in the
charity area and he's been helping me
out is a is a proficient proficient in
Delta charities and he's been helping me
out a lot in in making this right so
it's still a work in progress but I
think I'm almost there
other than this I've been working with
Jim with trying to find out solutions
for bugs he's been finding only peopie
but here strapped in mostly in terms of
membership and connectivity which this
is last example was I need to address in
your all that and that's it for me any
questions right so I'll stop share yeah
it's me so for the concluded part I
finalized restructuring the extension to
use slices and message passing so as I
as I said in the previous meeting I had
some issues regarding CSP a horse and
CSS here horse so I've had to basically
iframes and shadow DOM together get
around this
issues and I've work on that solution
solution and I actually finalized the
refactor of the extension to use that
strategy the second part is the sidebar
logic I've implemented the sidebar
finalized animation and move the state
off the sidebar to the background script
of the extension he's working nicely I
will demo the state of the application
in the demos part so you guys can see
and also I've implemented the add new
comments or the create comment feature
so essentially is already implemented I
will demo that as well so in progress
I'm working on removing comments a
plating comments and reply to comments
that's essentially it I hopefully the
remove feature will be ready today and
tomorrow I will work on the plate and
and reply next I I need to refine the
application like see what what can be
improved in terms of codes called
structure and readability and finally
yeah typo here I need to discuss with
Pedro a few things related to the ipfs
the way I use ipfs and the data model
one of the questions that I've been
thinking about is essentially the
extension injects a context content
script in each tab and each tab as it is
now will have its own instance of a BFS
running per tab so this is not this is
not very performant this way I see it
because of the the amount of connections
to peers like if you have 10 times open
with the accession enable it will be
essentially 10 times the connections to
the to the to the 12 peers from possibly
duplicates to duplicate at once
so I need to discuss with Bello how can
we improve this I have one suggestion
which is to move the ipfs to the
background script which is just one and
all the runs one super chrome instance
and but then I need if I do that I need
to use the message passing structure
that I've implemented to you know make
ipfs available into the content scripts
or at least data flowing around via the
via the the content scripts I know that
if you have the companion accession and
enable the local IP Fiesta min on your
machine this is not an issue but I I
think most of the users won't have that
installed in your computer and set up
that way so this is something I need to
discuss with Pedro and then I have some
other concerns about the data model but
too specific to discuss right here I
think so I will I will chat with you
Peter
probably by the end of this week if
that's fine with you and that's it well
thank you any questions - yes I can of
course haven't won one question about so
this of course is related to discuss if
I and the browser extension some people
that know more about the context that
haven't seen other episodes of this
these meetings but I think you should
should definitely talk to a professor in
web browsers working group because they
they well one question is if you you
host this in one domain I'm mystified
about or ignite say is this still a
problem will there be one of your
assistants for
because this is an extension so which is
an extension that's that's different but
it yes if you if there's a website it
will be just one because of the Service
Worker
feature or package that we now have so
in the the website it's not a problem
but in the extension it is because the
domain effectively is different in each
tab or mostly different because you
never get in in other domains and keep
the tabs open Iran and so on so I've
actually shot the JavaScript people
first team about this and they told me
that there was an idea of developing a
package that essentially is similar to
the service worker in the sense that it
offers a ipfs global to work on which is
assess all the same api and then it
bridges all the communications to to
another instance there is running
somewhere it doesn't need to be in the
service worker but unfortunately it's
not set up to be done in the in this
quarter because it's not in the okok
years so I think we need to either
postpone our our discussion about these
or think about it right now and get a
get a solution for it the way the way
the way is the way I've been thinking is
if I move the ipfs instance and the
collaborations part and so on to the
background script and then use a simple
message message passing it will work but
there's an overhead because if I listen
to the state change event of the
collaboration and simply simply sends
the whole States down the wire what not
to wire but via post message it will be
based on a copy memory copy so it will
it will copy essentially the whole data
structure and send it to the to the
content script
and this is an issue I think it's not
very performance I will need to have
some sort of differential DIF calculator
on the top or on the on the macro script
and all these send updates to the to the
content script that's the way I'm
looking forward to doing to do it but
I'm not sure if I should worry about it
now or maybe later this really sounds
like we're duplicating work that light
all and GSA PFS folks you're going to be
doing with their message passing API and
I think that's they're trying to follow
the same standards I'm like as a web 3
things for that so it sounds like this
is maybe not not the best use of time
right now because it's to two tracks
once yep problem yes yeah I by the way
Arkadiy I don't think you have the
opposite this isn't true so I don't
think you have introduced yourself to to
the working group yes jumping and
telling people they're doing good work I
so i'm some of you may have worked
there's me a little bit over the summer
summits and associated things but now
I'm really really really full-time and
I'm doing a couple of things I'm going
to be managing the various
collaborations that protocol is engaged
in like the internet are everyone was
kind of a big example so I'll just be
yeah but in addition to that I'm going
to be kind of the interim p.m. on peer
path this is just helping it become you
know everything it can be become the
tool that we use internally instead of
you know this crypto pad they were using
right now this won't be like a full-time
thing for me and someone else will
probably end up doing it in the long
term as full-time but for the next few
months I'll be I'll be here yep
cool thank you thank you very exciting
about about that the thing about that
that I was was talking about that's all
it's totally true and one thing to have
in mind is is whether we if we if you do
have to use message-passing for
multiplexing
so right now we're using the p2p to to
do have a custom protocol on top of the
p2p so if you then may make like like a
proxy up your first node and message
passing for that you have to also
implement multiplexing so streaming on
on top of that and it's very should be
very nice complex so it's a big task if
you on the other hand just do an app
specific thing like like you were saying
like syncing or only the different
differences in the at the app level the
higher level data exchange at a higher
level data changes that's more specific
to the to your your needs but if you
want to address this at the app your
first layer
yeah totally it's a very mean I'm more
inclined into doing the app specific
stuff right now and not wait for the
other solution in terms of the the other
working group which is I profess because
of one one specific reason which is
remember that when the user navigates in
in a website let's say Google or
Facebook there's a lot of refreshes so
the page refreshes a lot that means that
the content scripts also gets reloaded
and the connections the peer connections
will go go basically it's connect and
have to connect all over it again
this means that there's a huge boot time
in terms of the discussion being loaded
and plated and synchronize so I think
doing the app specific stuff is really
straightforward I will say it's like 30
percent overhead in terms of using the
peer startup directly in the content
script so I'll probably go
with that solution as the initial
approach okay we should also think
practice addresses keep addressing this
letter and track this isn't like an
issue one on on this classify or pierced
our app so we can can can append to this
discussion to bring and bring other
people they're aware of our of our needs
I will talk with Vasco because was
commissioned as a person that wanted to
do the the proxy library but I'm sure
the name of him and I will wish him not
to get an aiming to reference a issue
that has already created them and put
tender comments yeah any more questions
okay I will basically demo out the
duplication in the end okay so you guys
see all right status but I will I will
let I think now is Jing dick yes I think
it soon yeah sure so last few weeks is
just being basically working on my
little pear pad nano app and it
described here I mostly focused in on
trying to visualize the the appear so I
could see the individual peers in the
state they are and build a little react
visualization for it so I could see the
in the UI because it's just a lot going
on underneath the covers and that was a
really valuable exercise because it just
turned up I don't know like five or six
really major bugs and I'm surprised that
it ain't even worked at all so I haven't
yet done the pull request to get them
into the central pad at the pier starter
app I will try to do that today
I just keep quitting more bugs just and
so there was like a major bug in like
the removal just JavaScript it was like
when you do force
thing in it actually the index is
actually a string that comes back and
then we're adding it to the number so it
was actually nuking all the all the
piers off whenever it would do in an
addiction so that was that was creating
a lot of instability there is also I was
looking into how the DSS work and they
weren't really doing what we wanted when
there were a small number of peers and
it was a not a very even distribution so
there was easy fix for that so I went
that yesterday and that greatly removed
improved the stability of the of the
connections and I've been playing around
with the painters they my pinners
weren't holding the connection for a
long period of time so last night I set
up this loop where they sort of kill
themselves off after 10 minutes and I
said it three to be finished and I seem
to be working okay I logged in this
morning and there were like a couple
hundred peers when I first load the page
so I think I just discovered a bug in
the Ronde rendezvous server so is the
rendezvous servers not forgetting peers
so so I can fix that one so this oh yes
just as you might want to check out
there is an issue on what's up its star
it was resolved today I say you should
check that one I'm not sure it's very
likely but it's something similar on on
the on the motion
anyway so if there's time I can give a
quick little demo of the little appears
display works and I think I might be
interesting but if there's no time I can
do that any time it Candide in Scotland
if everybody's there so that this this
week or next two weeks
obviously Scotland I didn't know I was
going until last Thursday so
theoretically I have clean tickets I'm
not sure the good work on those zombie
peers get the pull requests in there's a
bit of corruption happening it's funny
I'm watching crypt pad
pat has the same sort of problems but I
think it's just a problem in my front
end code because it shouldn't they
shouldn't even be possible for this
corruption to be getting in service it
just tells me there's a bug I made I'm
gonna get the pin er said after we start
through every ten minutes I also want to
take I also wanna play around with
actually just doing really really crude
like every ten minutes or so
dump the the state into the DHT so that
we can rehydrate it and also do full
rendering so you can turn javascript off
and we just rerender the index.html like
or we'd have to do it would be specific
to each app but for like my little demo
app that would be trivial to do so just
be like can you pull it in JavaScript
turned off like the first pull from the
server you'll get the text that you were
editing and then maybe hit a button to
load in all the JavaScript I automated
tests cuz I was supposed to do automated
tests and I just they're headed to many
like really major things the automate
tests are depend what working into place
so we don't regress and Scotland not
really block on anything alright cutting
testing
ah sorry I thought it had to go I
thought he was asking for each to make a
question he has to run all right any
question for Jim nope cool then Andrea
Souza yeah so I finished the user
journey for disgust if I log in right
now it's make with a different decision
such you can see the comments and then
you need to be inside the to log in
imagine that you're seeing any comment
you want to stay and leave your comment
and then you'll be triggered with a
modal and then if it asks for login
instead of every time that you need to
open the app here we need were required
to log in that's a use case that I've
changed another thing in following up
Andre what Andre said I had to revise
the style guide improve some components
and add pictures to the you check the
secondary links that didn't didn't work
predictive until now create and just me
track the model's appearance have been
triggered as well and then you check
okay so I finished the ID my frames for
the POC in progress right now I'm
studying and trying to start sketching
different approaches for the IDM visual
language the brand is mostly define it
but then we need to standardize
everything like a brand Manuel define
the typography and all that starts stuff
associated with a brand itself and then
try and run a few tests for the app
concept visually speaking and then
something that I'm working as well right
now it's the component system what's
this this is a metric for sketch that
you need to when when creating and any
element any UI element you can create
another element within the component
itself when you change
it will be replaced and and updated on
every single place so it's like the
react system would apply to the design
workflow so I'm not blogging and on
anything right now
and next will be yeah define with Andre
the shadows are the required flows for
the IDM PLC to make sure that we can
have that specific scenarios promised to
be we implemented and then deploy and
for now yeah that's it nice thank you
any questions for the no all right
Turkey what you want to add some up
better or you haven't put any updates
yeah I haven't really been working too
much
on stuff with you guys yes thank you for
for for that muscle
yes the work put in a fix for which was
it multiple so the same collaboration
when when like do you know Pierce our
app we do Aptos collaborate and twice
with the same name second one would come
on started and so we did a quick fix for
for that thank you
alright so I think it's time for demos
right first is a very subtle zone yeah
let me shut up here
the things
okay share screen where is it can you
see my screen yes okay can I get this
sort of screen I don't I don't think so
anyway let me move this around I'll say
okay so I will turn on the extension I'm
going to open it as you see I already
have comments set up so right now we can
comment like say something you can
comment you can also do multiple lines
as well and this is the create feature
and right now I was working on the
delete comments I had it set up but
there's some CSS issues I need to fix
that I was working right right on it
previously before the the sink and also
I got this edit feature already set up
in terms of CSS I just need to put the
text area and implement a save feature
so yeah that's basically it's the status
of the next session
[Music]
nice thank you any questions for ya emo
we need to revise the transition between
all the status so you're still acting
your comments and then you're editing
and something will happen and not just
just those clothes jacking you need to
have a fade out or fade in any kind of
transition that makes everything a bit
smoother I mean when you we are
commenting and deleting as well yeah
even on the Edit part it will be great
if we can apply some some transition
there okay okay I will add the
transitions as soon as the state logic
and data model logic is done okay
yeah but the baby babies is growing yes
hopefully by the end of the week I will
have all the the features the essential
features implemented I probably will
take one day more to implement the
nesting of the replies because there's a
lot of specific rules like there's a
maximum indentation of replies and then
it shows replying to something right and
another note where well already defined
the the breakpoints I don't know we want
to refer that which we revised the Rick
points for the sidebar size in this case
yeah I can't show it in a huge monitor
because I'm my laptop but you know like
a 4k display the sidebar is is a little
bit bigger and the spacings spacing as
well yeah I think I think that's that's
it I also need to implement this part
this at Mamata static but I read to I
need to read the the domain extracted of
mine from the location and also extract
description from the meta tags and also
an icon that's essentially the favicon
or something similar to present before
the the domain I will do that so after
the the data model part as well
I have one question for you there's and
recruits you is that real or that no no
no it's me from the Newport accounts
nice yeah these are already set up
I can't let me see I can show you the
Redux store because the Redux store is
not connected at the moment but because
of the extension the relaxed star does
it work directly but yeah it's
essentially if I pick the image you see
that tits come coming from me flora from
a profess so it's set up already and are
you fine no no no the signing part will
only be made as soon as we complete IDM
yeah because as as you as you might know
the the the current your ports mobile
application doesn't allow any signing so
you can't sign stuff what we could do is
much I I mean that that's the overall
IDM strategy but what we could do is to
generate the session key or an app key
or something like that and then sign it
with a mobile with a mobile application
because they have like claims you can
make claims and we can do it as a claim
and use that session key to to sign
stuff here but then you can't prove that
you are that the signing key is in the
in the ID document because you don't
have it so it sort of arts for outsiders
to verify the ownership of the comments
and another issue of your part is that
it's not peer-to-peer friendly because I
have this thing here unfortunately I
have this thing here which is in
directions which I can't have it here
this is the secrets secrets a shared
secret between you ports and my up then
is that it doesn't belong to the salty
can't be in the source code of
front end so it doesn't work correctly
or I mean it's not suitable for
peer-to-peer ups because I I have to
have this code somewhere in the code
base yes
so you port doesn't support peer to peer
peer to peer anyway you could we could
use the IP offense ID and there's a
quick win or not yeah yeah we could but
then the creator counterpart will be
after we might from the scratch you know
what I mean so it will take a lot of
time to develop just ads so I opted out
for you port as a stopgap between the
viewport and IBM essentially because
it's already implemented is easy to log
in easy to create an account and so I
can so I can move on to the the data
model and mention the author and profile
the name the picture and so on which is
already real but once we got EDM we win
the application of psychic signatures
and signing stuff and so on yeah all
right cool thank you
any more questions it's really cool and
it's exciting to see that you can
implement to an actual identity you know
just something we're gonna want to do
for IG is so I have a couple questions
I've actually written a Chrome extension
before and I've gone through all this
post message well that you are not
dealing with in the moment and I'm just
wondering how how is this performing so
far just in your development environment
I'll do I'll their performance yeah just
yeah I mean developing an extension is
is not very developer friendly but I
found a package which I can I can give
you later on or I can place it here in
the shed which essentially provides that
model reload or similar
to the extension to the extensions role
in terms of development development so
what it does is essentially when you
edit a file it waits for the webpack
compilation and then it reloads the page
with the app to date code automatically
so that so that you don't have to go
into the Chrome extensions and reload it
to yourself it's it's do do that
automatically for you basically besides
that it's pretty fast the web
compilation is fast I mean I don't have
any any issues in terms of performance I
I can give you the package by the way so
that you are aware of it I will paste it
in the in the shed so this is this one
is made by the by a Portuguese guy as
well I said I sent him like a twit
say thank you very much for what is
developing this because it really is
really really useful okay this is the
package nice any more questions no I
think we have another demo right Jim you
want to show your banana yeah so mostly
I just wanna show the the UI I built for
debugging so everybody see this yep okay
so this is basically pure pad but I
stripped away all the the the extra UI
and I just boiled it down to just the
text editing component not the other
bits of the collaboration and what I've
done is I've built this little area here
and I know if I should label these
different but this is this is like the
the computers that are currently in the
collaboration I just taken the last
three characters of the pure ID and use
them in there and I also should display
the vector clocks this shows that this
particular web browser is a n2 and then
I have a little legend here so you can
see the ones that are have the outline
around them are in the DSS which means
that those are the ones that wants to
connect here and you can see as he
connected this connect two people come
and go you can sort of watch it all shut
so there's like other there's other
collaborations that might be happening
that aren't part of this collaboration
and and when new things show up they'll
show up here in this other line first
and there's also a way so you'll keep
track of peers that are no longer
connected at all but they've they're in
the vector clock they've typed
characters into the document before but
they're just like gone so it all shows
up in the UI here so let's make this
interactive I'm just going to post this
into the chat here I'm gonna ask your
buddy to connect to it and see Mike's
brachiopods
no peers still refreshing at least still
loading so this is all running off my
machine here it's not something flash
there
there's any person there I'm freaky gee
yeah and I have a test I'm going to
start typing good okay yep yeah I'm
start by typing as well yeah nice so I'm
not really sure why the transport dealer
set way it doesn't cover everybody
sometimes better listen act investigate
there's two there's two consistent hash
rings which track all these peers I've
just cited as well yeah so they're there
I was talking previously but there was
some issues with corruption I discovered
that and I think that's just in the
front end so it's like when it's
applying these patches from the editor
against the the CR DT so I think if the
here if there's some asynchronous thing
happening wrong there where the CRT T is
being updated before the patch gets
applied so that's that's one of the
first things I'm going to investigate I
also have a pinning working sort of so
so if I have to copy this rendezvous
server staying here ah what was that
okay yeah so if I do this this should
join up he should show up and then if
everybody was to disconnect this thing
would sink the document and then even
then and when somebody joins up again
this I'll have a copy of it and it'll
keep it alive so so there's there's
little issues I just discovered it if
you last night because I'm I actually
have three of these Pinner set up on my
is pure podcast yet
version and I know this for some reason
it wasn't I can't leave them if I leave
them running for a long time they they
sort of loose the plot and they stop
connecting to people so I put in a
little thing where I have three times I
just restart them every 10 minutes and
hopefully only when restarts at the time
so then they they'd keep the data alive
but that died actually triggered another
bug so that one's actually sort of funny
I'll show it to you cuz we go to is pure
pad passed yet when it first loads up oh
it's not gonna show that but it would
show up like hundreds of peers so this
thing step on it ways yeah there's a lot
of these bugs that sort of come and go I
guess yeah I guess the stability could
improve when we have to do sets we don't
have well what was it oh yeah eviction
you are nothing we're not connecting so
we're not evicting because the Geo set
was not never a part of the the set we
want to connect to
we were not evicting yeah so that was
like a second order work yeah let's see
if it does the crazy thing is this weird
because it's like it'll be like you look
normal and then all of a sudden like a
hundred peers I'll show up I decide that
this morning so I think it's because I
had these things we starting all night
so but it seems to be okay now so
anyways it's there were some the burglar
fixed the last week were really were
deadly to the stability of the
connections so hopefully I'll get these
bugs in and that'll be also a useful
useful for discuss the fire I think as
well and I don't we could even deploy
them on the public your pad I guess so
oh yes it sort of thing is I like I I
spawned like twenty twenty nodes like
not Jaso he knows and then it's just the
same time and it all works but this but
if there's evidence in this I think this
is a visualization to the other thing
like it's really useful could be
something that we could make it
eventually available to other people
that are using pierced our app yeah on
other places like to keep track of who
they're connected to or in a debug pain
or something like to see so see who they
are connected to and what then later we
could even connect this today real
identities yeah yeah it's the stability
is starting to come back it's still a
little bit too too much going on behind
the scenes in the browser I'd like to
get it a little bit less heavy so the
lighter we can make it the more people
can use it in their apps but I think my
my goal is I think ever get rid of the
corruption I want to like show it to
more people in the company here
just like test it out like just this
version of it and then try to get the
Pinner stuff working I'd really like to
get the pinare stuff working with the
DHT before Scotland yeah and then
because then it starts to become
interesting nice and then we'll have IP
NS eventually yeah figure out how to
like the way it is now like I could do
all the you know if the work is like on
the Pinner
app which is certain OGS apps so we can
add all sorts of features into that one
so right yeah there's a question there
like how do you put these it like
assigning maybe domain names to things
and that that's a whole extra level
there's something else more than just
I'd like to do more than just the text
editing as well I liked it get the to-do
list
demo working as well well then should
should be yeah I would I would like to
actually maintain they have an app that
maintains the list of content I'm
pinning into my ipfs node and just have
a C or D key to manage that Oh get back
it update for multiple machines I ripped
out all the encryption on this one like
the keys and that so that's enough
that's another work to do is to go back
in and how do you make these things so
only you can edit it or edit it it's not
really a question is about the
encryption parts which which I tried
like weeks ago when when we try to use
peer pass to actually put the notes of
this meeting but it was really slow in
my in my MacBook because of the the time
it took to encrypt and decrypt the
payloads so essentially it was blocking
the white thread which is you know
causes decide to be very sluggish yeah
so I have a suggestion and perhaps it's
not the right time because we are
dealing with the network errors and
stability right now but later on we
could move those every parts every part
in terms of CPU usage to the to a web
worker or something or two to get around
the doctor white-red basically yeah yeah
I did some profiling and I saw like the
most of the CPA was being used by the
encryption so but there's a it could
just be that like the things compiled
wrong or something - so like that would
be the first thing I would look at
because I've gotten stuck with that
using different encryption library it's
not that slow so you should be possible
the encryption faster than that there's
also one singer on a PhD I just tested
this was a few months ago I tested the
performance on some things
sanity related and if I just disable DHT
it will it was much faster because well
at least one when you're creating
records I'm not sure if that's the case
but something to look look out for is
the background DHT yeah that it's all of
course that is also encryption and at
least for the psyche is or the channels
that between between all the peers I
have turned out it turned out the
encryption and it's still sluggish so
there's things that are not encryption
which are making it feel sluggish I
think it's more perceived performance so
I think it's like a synchronous like
throttle this or debounce that or
probably in the wrong place
so like sometimes I type characters and
it shows up in the vector clock but
doesn't show up in the UI so we're gonna
be looking at that today so I think
there's just problems at the top level
so so very cool don't worry about the
encryption too much yet but that's the
future work to turn it back on in this
case if I I will not have that problem
because I will turn off encryption
because
all the discussions are public right now
and also if even if I in the future have
private discussions it will run on the
background script so it won't block the
any white thread on the any white
handling thread helping happening in the
browser so idea it's an issue that we
can look out after all these issues are
sorted out and improved because it's low
priority compared to what you're dealing
with
now when one alternative to to using web
workers is to outsource this entire
thing to to a service worker
I like Pierre Pierre star app interface
is really small
the app is really small so the club with
the charity is doing all the work and
then you can inspect membership and then
you can get up the file on certain
events but just just think the clicking
way ahead maybe this this could be long
in something off threads entirely and
then peers are at with with interface
with with that Service Worker
in somewhere else even if any even if we
move the increasing part etc to the to
an off thread it isn't like lip you to
Pierre performing signing and stuff
under the hood that would actually make
the Y sluggish in in high performance
animation in transitions on the on the
web web why yes if it's well if it's in
a different thread well al Libi to be
still so Sakai always is doing so
critical communication and yeah it will
have an impact we should measure measure
that anyway and see and see what's
what's the issue there that will be
harder to decouple I think so harder to
put on an honor of thread because
reputed peer and even it professed we'll
need to provide an option for that or
even
the Liberty P well there's a p2p crypto
is has an async interface okay so have a
sink interface so it's kind of repair
okay for for for that that's right the
theoretically to hard to put it put it
off Fred but like what exact cause of
yeah I mean yeah if it's if it's
something that it's opt opt in it's it's
pretty easy to put that functionality
that you know into a service work and
use post message to communicate between
the lemons red and whites red via a
library that will just do that exactly
that and you will install the library in
the serviceworker well anymore
i don't know who was uh yeah the
questions are work for Jim's demo any
more questions like you know you can
actually visually see what's going on in
in terms of the networking which is
something I really get unless I can
actually see it with my eyes
and it reminds me of I don't know if you
guys have seen the latest file coin
videos in which they actually have a
like a visual animation or I think it's
actually real time what's going on
between the different nodes so I'm gonna
could be worth creating something
something like that that's very
specifically for showing how networking
happens within collaborations yeah like
this is this thing is mostly for the
connection state so it's not really
showing the actual networking that's
going on yeah I know what you're talking
about yeah it's it's the thing but like
you can see the ultimate in the entire
message like a wire graphical Wireshark
protocol specific graphical Wireshark
saying it's very cool
if this is really supposed to devote to
debug protocols and it consumes not the
problem it consumes
a very specific format which we would
then have to pipe somewhere central to
get a visualization of the whole at
least a whole collaboration but no no if
the entire network would be read but
this is the whole collaboration should
be a lot of while depending I think the
way that they have a lot of logging
going on and so basically it just they
just tap into the log stream and they
use the log stream as a way of driving
this UI so you if you implement the
longing layer then you can derive the UI
from so I'm wondering I don't know what
logging there exists already within the
logging is app so I rely for login using
debug statements which is well you can
just filter them out it's not something
that is designed to just to do network
inspection itself but we could create
that bat interface and then pipe it to
somewhere and have that visualization or
we could check into that BFS layer and
next time well instead of hard for a TFS
later because it's it's it will all be
it will not be we will not be able to
inspect the semantics off of the packets
it will be harder to interpret but yet
peers are at level yeah we could we
could absolutely do do that at CDC ality
Delta's traveling from beaut appearance
II like to prove whether also debug a
problem would of thought to prove
whether those are many most of the other
stuff like that there's also another
another to another so I did three thing
that I created networking so you can see
you can see the networking but you also
can see the traffic types into the
statistics
[Music]
between peers the amount of traffic with
time time windows like 1 million 5
minutes in 15 minutes I can it will be
will awesome to have what dick yeah no I
know if I'm pronouncing your name
correctly but it is a great idea because
if you have like a reporting or logging
interface cohesive cohesive and solids
we can do great things like we can do
take those 3 more thugs do a post post
message API around it I pick to a
postmessage api and have like dev tools
tab for instance listening listening on
those events and drawing graphical
interfaces right on dev tools for
instance or even you can develop an
extension and that extension will be
listening on those events as well and
draw draw stuff that is happening under
the hood it will be awesome that'd be
really good I like that idea
imagine like it's like you have the
Redux and react tabs on these developer
tools you'll have like peer pads or not
so not clear path sorry pierced are and
it will display the network topology the
events going on the data flows and so on
it will be awesome yeah this under
format but that's not the format that
that to uses no I mean it could just
develop a simple like you just you just
define the events and the data of those
events and then just do a post message
call saying these events happen with
these arguments and then the the chrome
the chrome tab a developer developer
extension tab will listen to that
whatever extension will con listen to
that and we will be drawing all that
stuff in those in those tools basically
I can show you this example well listen
recording of this example
I know I know that you paid already
really did have some tools visualization
tools yeah it's you guys so it's the
recording is really low low resolution
but it's like you can see the traffic
between all the peers and the thickness
of the lines for instance indicate
tomorrow's traffic between between the
peers and then you can see in out so
outbound inbound in one connections
between all the peers and and and well
that's the event extraction of the
ipfs statistics also using the FS
logging or statistics yeah okay that's
module in Pierce all right yeah so which
nothing is drawing from that sorry in
strong from from that that PFS logs are
related to the entire traffic between
you know the peers not the app specific
for in system the Diaz set cannot be
easily represented just by tapping into
the I professor 36 right now exactly we
have to know this is a collaboration
coercive specific visualizations so yeah
it would be awesome to move that into a
logging and then this tool that you
might could just instead used those logs
to to create the state after the nodes
and coloration and what's happening and
they're everywhere yes we have to pop
that into a central place everyone has
the puppeteer so you can visualize the
entire the entire collaboration because
I know that all only has a partial view
of the other networks because they only
connects a maximum of six other peers
we need to look that into that into the
future I think it's not not now because
we are still other other making yeah
making the things table so right I think
we'll be a bit like six minutes over
time any more questions
I so I found a bug in a is Delta C
oddities with the RGA implementation
that I submitted a PR for and it was
managed and to be honest it wasn't
really a bug in inspection it was
actually a bug in the persistence layer
that is the way that the information is
encoded and decodes and so I'm wondering
if you guys have any tests around sort
of testing stuff in jazz Delta C IDT's
but you know with the persistence layer
in mind you know whether yeah that's a
good a good a good question because I
was thinking about that just today so
Delta said it these downs are kind of
abstract I can I can perhaps shared
screen so definitely so it's it's just
they they internal state has maps and
sets and new javascript niceties but it
doesn't translate really well to to
jason and so we do encoding and decoding
at the burette level using message back
and we message back extension for sets
and and maps and but you don't we don't
test that the correctness at that level
we don't know encoding and decoding so
that's a good question i think we should
bring civilization into JSL facilities
and best that from we're on the tests at
that level or to spray even all the
tests which run it but the thing is that
there is no standard way of
I think encoding and decoding maps and
and sets at least not in message pack
which one using because it's really
flexible encoding style so an H acidity
has a different internal state
requirements so there's kind of a hard
problem but yeah I think we should we
should like create extract that
civilization to its own package and then
and then test that and pass the entire
set of the lucidity just to have any any
any ideas on that yeah I think I think
maybe adding a suite of tests either
within that package or in a company
package that actually runs the same
tests as can tell to see IDT's but
performs it through the marshalling i'm
actually layer right
so one thing latin is that you will
migrate to a key LD point in the future
so i don't know if that that internal
state of deltas are going to be
represented in IPL d itself or or they
will just be blobs transparent apple-pie
coops sorry
but that's the kind of a related thing
encoding/decoding because archaeology
already does some of that will have to
do to dig into more but can you point me
to to the issue I'm not sure if I got
that
sorry image it was a clear that I I
submitted this week it's like a the last
clue is PR on this are you on the Delta
seventies one I think spell I think so
yeah
oh yeah definite loop on the person last
edge okay hmm and they say this was
triggered by by some error in the in the
serialization yeah basically the issue
is that message pack and kurds undefined
as null oh that's just i guess that's
like the message back standard okay cool
any more more questions open way to
create an issue by the way on just like
I said it is where we don't forget about
this anymore questions well no all right
so
meeting adjourned thank you for coming
see you on the Internet's if not and/or
next meeting see ya